it is a Paramount importance that I find
separation between me and the Persona of
Stevo why
we have to go back to the beginning of
my journey I didn't get attention from
my parents my dad was a businessman and
my mom suffered from alcoholism my
father would Praise You for stunts
diving head first for baseballs and he'd
give one dollar I don't think you have
to be Sigmund Freud to imagine that had
something to do with the coming and
attention [__] that was when I started
doing dangerous stunts I'm Stevo and
this is the fish hook why stunts growing
up I felt defective and the thought was
I wasn't gonna live very long so I was
lashing out at death taunting it but I
lost my mom in 2003 and that traumatized
me more than anything I'm out of control
broadcasting my downward spiral it's a
200 influential people in real time you
were man handled into a psych wood yeah
this was gonna be my legacy and having
miserably failed at life and the
toughest thing is that I wanted to make
my mom proud
Stephen Gilchrist Glover AKA Stevo
honesty honesty saved Stevo's life but
the man that sits in front of me today
isn't Stevo it is Stephen Gilchrist
Glover which is a man you've probably
never met before but once you meet
Stephen Gilchrist Glover you'll
undoubtedly understand Stevo that guy
that we grew up with on our screens
doing those crazy jackass stunts that
behind the scenes struggled with a deep
discomfort of being in his own skin
depression drug addiction
existential panic and obsession with
attention
crippling grief and most surprisingly
and paradoxically of all a deep deep
fear of death it absolutely doesn't
appear to make sense but once you listen
to this conversation if you listen
closely you'll understand exactly why
that's driving him this conversation
will make you laugh it will inspire you
it will motivate you it will challenge
you it will make you feel understood and
it will teach you what it takes and what
it means to live a good life including
the role that romantic love has played
in Stevo finally living a good life and
for me it reaffirms to me once again
that in order to live that good life in
order to find that good life we need to
surrender stop fighting life
and we need to be honest and once we are
we might just find all of the things
that we're looking for
you're gonna love this one
[Music]
Stephen
all right
you've lived a
anomalous life
the man that sits before me today is an
anomaly in many respects the
professional path you've walked is
extraordinary to say the least in order
to understand you
what do I need to understand about your
your earliest context to understand who
you are and why you walk to the path you
did in your life what's the first sort
of domino that that I need to understand
I would point to
my
uh lineage
my mom's side of the family
is uh
like the whole family tree every leaf on
the tree suffered from alcoholism some
form of addiction
um and then at the same time Barry
uh
personable
um charismatic individuals but just very
alcoholic and a lot of deviants then my
dad's side of the family
is uh super academic
um
there's a lot of
theologians clergy men everybody's got
at least like a master's degree or a PhD
or you know highly decorated
Academia and my dad broke the mold by
becoming a businessman
um so I just kind of think that
I am a little bit of a hybrid of both in
that I definitely
went towards deviance and suffered from
alcoholism but I had this
rocket engine on it from my dad's side
of the family
and as I've grown older I think my
uh
I'm I'm kind of manifest my dad's side
more than my mom's side
before we start recording I said that
one of the things that really surprised
me was sat in London now was to learn
that you were born in London back in
1974 yeah born in Wimbledon
um which makes me British
my mother was born in Canada which makes
me Canadian and my father was born in
America which makes me American I'm what
you call Triple National
and I hold three valid passports
I'm very jealous
it's cool like having the keys to the to
the world in many respects
how did that impact you though because
you told me that you were you born here
your first words was in Portuguese in
Brazil and you're in Venezuela then
Canada then the USA as a young child
that's figuring out the world and
figuring out where he belongs and making
friends how does that sort of
destabilization impact impact you in
hindsight
I don't think you have to be Sigmund
Freud to imagine that uh
that had something to do with me
becoming an attention [__] and um I
think that it's actually
exacerbated by the fact that when I
moved to Brazil at the age of six months
um I moved to Brazil because my father
became the president of Pepsi Cola in
all of Brazil
and
it was just kind of
living it up you know I think that's the
best way to describe it and
I didn't get much attention from my
parents I was actually raised by living
Maids which is why I spoke my first
words in Portuguese
so I think I was lacking for some
attention from my parents and
I think that that has something to do
plus the instability
and and always being the new kid in
school it was
I never stayed one place for more than
a couple years
um
so yeah I uh I I
point to that for why I became such an
attention [__]
the the contacts that you you raised in
your mother's at home your dad's very
very busy very successful businessman by
all accounts yeah not just busy but
traveling okay my dad was consistently
gone I would argue that he was gone more
than he was home
and and mom was drunk
um a lot so
I had um
not just uh lacking attention but
lacking supervision a lot of the time
too
in 2023 we've learned a lot about
addiction and alcoholism and those kinds
of things but I I imagine I mean I
wasn't alive then but back in 1974
people didn't understand that behavior
as clearly as they do now did you
understand your mother's behavior when
you were young did you understand her
relationship with alcohol was a
uh an unhealthy thing or an addiction I
think so yeah
um
I think so because I remember
um she would have these these binges
drinking
um where
it it wouldn't be the case that my mom
would get drunk at night and then wake
up and you know have a hangover and and
then get drunk again the next night it
was more of a case where she would stay
drunk for for days or weeks on end
how old sorry oh um like it got really
pretty crazy I would say when I was
about eight certainly when I was nine it
was it was terrible
and um
whenever my mom would would sober up
from one of her binges she would swear
that she was never gonna drink again and
invariably she would and and I I say
this because I think I really really
understood the concept of the disease of
alcoholism very well because when I
would come home from school and find
that my mom was drinking
I would I would say to her you know
Mommy said you were never going to do
this again and she would explain to me
that this time it was going to be
different this time she was only going
to have a couple and I remember knowing
that that was not the case and that's
kind of the the reality of alcoholism is
that the alcoholic once they start
drinking they cannot stop they've lost
control and
and that it's it's a characteristic of
alcoholics the idea that that they
the illusion that one day they're gonna
control and enjoy their drinking and and
uh
and they pursue this illusion
the into the gates of insanity or death
that's that's uh how it's described and
I understood that so I knew if mom had
one drink I knew that all bets were off
for days or weeks
you know you talked about lineage like
yeah the family line yeah what is what
is that then is that is that a
predisposition is that a genetic
predisposition your viewer is that a
a
a generational trauma you know did you
have you ever figured out what causes
that
I understand there to be a genetic
component to the alcoholism
um
I don't know that it really matters
um as much like like why one becomes
alcoholic but
um certainly as I said on my mom's side
of the
the family it never skipped a generation
I mean it got everybody
and then sanity of it
I mean one could really describe it as
as
a mental illness I mean they
they do say it's a disease that's
centered in the mind
um
for me to see and experience what I did
as a child like just how
how awful it got and then
for me to just pick up a drink is is so
is so insane I mean if if anybody should
have known better it
should have been me and I remember at
the time like 16 years old when I when I
started
drinking regularly
I just uh convinced myself that what
would make me different is that I was
gonna enjoy it I was gonna where I was
gonna party
and uh it's just insanity
but that that speaks to the nature of
the addiction and the disease though
because people's people that are outside
of that situation might see it as
um self-destructive but clearly you know
clearly it's it can't be that it's
clearly something else because you saw
how destructive it was right and yet
it's still through no choice
you made to an intention you made it it
managed to to find you later in life did
what your father in this context is he
aware that your mother's has this
disease of addiction with alcohol
um Mom would really do her best to get
her act together by the time Dad got
home from his business trips
um and with
very little success I would say when Dad
would get back Mom would describe that
that she was ill
and and and dad would believe it a lot
of the time I think Dad
I mean yeah he knew but uh but the
extent of it and um how naive he was to
to believe that Mom just wasn't feeling
well or did he did he I don't know I
mean we we would describe it as
rose-colored glasses
um
I don't know and and perhaps dad was
just so focused on his stuff that man I
don't even know it would be crazy to not
know
but somehow I believe that my dad was
particularly naive or
or gullible or I I'm not sure but
sometimes I think men have a
predisposition to avoid conflict
yeah and to opt for an easy life
right I think that that that's probably
Fair too
but man it's um
it makes me really sad that uh
that that I lost my mom yeah I lost my
mom in in 2003.
um November of 2003
and um
I just like I think
had we both
um been in recovery I don't think
anybody from my mom's side of the family
ever managed to achieve long-term
sobriety I think I'm the first
and
it's just I fantasize about what it
would be like to
from my mom and I to have both gotten
you know gotten it
well like what our relationship would be
like
she would get such a kick out of it I
think that she would have gotten such a
kick out of
um me being successful
and she didn't get to see it you know
she never well
because jackass had just started to move
at that point hadn't it well the thing
was that her last five years she
um
was the
terribly
disabled both physically and mentally
because in 1998 she suffered an aneurysm
which let which
yeah it um
rendered her
very very disabled so the last five
years it
she didn't
she had a really rough last five years
and and that
um
traumatized me more than anything she
developed bed sores
she uh
cried in pain for for her last five
years it was
the most upsetting the more the
by far the most traumatized I've ever
been by anything was the situation that
my mom was in for her last five years
and um
yeah and it's all because of this
this uh
this thing this alcoholism
and and had again like
had she been been in recovery had that
not happened had like we I just again I
fantasized about what our relationship
might be like today
but yeah that started us off on a bummer
yeah yeah it's it's really interesting
context though specifically this you
know you said the thing about attention
and seeking attention from
um in a variety of different ways
because you were destabilized in terms
of your school early schooling life your
father's not present I I read that you'd
said that um
you wanted your father's approval and as
a child your father would Praise You for
physical stunts such as yeah diving head
first
um
for baseballs or doing push-ups for your
fathers and his friends I would do a
hundred push-ups in a row
for his buddies
and he'd give me like one dollar
and that
everybody got a kick out of that I love
doing it
and uh I don't think they were terribly
impressive push-ups because hundreds a
lot
but um but yeah I I was a little bit of
a
of a performer at my dad's best I think
there's This Thing Called Love Languages
have you ever seen it before have you
ever done the love languages test thing
no it's this thing you do online and I
think it's pretty telling I'm not into
like pseudo [__] whatever but I
think it's pretty telling and it
basically you answer these like 30 40
questions and it tells you the language
of love that you have so some people are
words of affirmation that's how they
kind of show and receive love some
people are physical touch some people
are little acts of service some people
are gifts for example and it was making
me when I was reading that in your in
your book I was thinking about how
like that can become a love language for
us and it's funny because then I skipped
to this moment later in your story where
you had a heartbreak and the way that
you responded to the Heartbreak to try
and get attention was by doing stunts
yeah and I just saw this connection
there and I thought you know it's
interesting some of our love languages
can be like stunts or sure or other
forms of like validation
uh-huh
it's an interesting take on it I
remember
um
at the point when I had the Heartbreak
and that was when I when I really
started doing dangerous stunts
um it was less for well yeah it was for
attention and I wanted this this
girl who had dumped me to uh to be
worried that I would die
I got I mean it's crazy but yeah I was
like I was jumping off rooftops into
pools and and you know climbing off of
like just huge balconies and stuff and
um and sending her the videos or just
posting them questions
um at the time there was no such thing
as sending videos without going to the
post office
but yeah I would send her in amount of
videos
from the post-ops I would mail them to
her like once a year
and and the videos genuinely did get
ratter and ratter
yeah each new installment it was uh it
was yeah it was crazy if I'd asked you
when you were a young man in your
teenagers what are you going to be when
you grow up what would you have
responded ah man
the first
actual
thought I had for a career to pursue was
um one in advertising
you know um my father had won a video
camera in a golf tournament and I stole
it from his closet and began
videotaping my skateboarding with my
buddies and I learned how to edit by
plugging these video cassette recorders
together and I would hit play on one and
record on the other to just record the
good bits
and and it was crude editing not
sophisticated
um but uh I fell in love with the
process and clearly I wasn't that great
at skateboarding so
um I just thought there's something
about
this uh
capturing video and then editing it
to you know I mean create presentations
and
ultimately to
manipulate the video to create influence
you know there was just something really
magical and Powerful about that and um I
I
thought that that would be a great
career for me and so I went off to the
University of Miami to pursue that but I
just had trouble making it to class so
I had graduating from University was not
in the cards
and I I knew I still loved the video
camera and you know manipulating images
to to sway people one way or the other
and um I decided that since I wasn't
that great at skateboarding that I would
do crazy stunts
and so I literally dropped out of
University
in 1993.
to pursue a career as
a crazy famous stunt man
and there was no precedent at the time
everybody who I explained that plan to
legitimately felt sorry for me like what
a tragic loser I I seemed to be and they
weren't wrong for the first uh three
years after I left the University of
Miami I was genuinely homeless
I was um
more of a couch Surfer than in a a guy
living on the streets
um but yeah I had no home man and um I
was not doing well quick one before we
get back to this episode just give me 30
seconds of your time
two things I wanted to say the first
thing is a huge thank you for listening
and tuning in to the show week after
week means the world to all of us and
this really is a dream that we
absolutely never had and couldn't have
imagined getting to this place
secondly it's a dream where we feel like
we're only just getting started and if
you enjoy what we do here please join
the 24 of people who watch this channel
regularly and have hit the Subscribe
button means more than I can say and if
you hit that subscribe button here's a
promise I'm going to make to you I'm
going to do everything in my power to
make this show as good as I can now and
into the future we're going to deliver
the guests that you want me to speak to
and we're going to continue to keep
doing all of the things you love about
the show
thank you thank you so much back to the
episode there's so many things that I
want to ask this question because I just
really want to hear it in your own words
which is like and I'm trying to maybe
piece it together using some connected
dots but why stunts
I have a theory that um
the the The Human Condition is one of uh
a real catch 22. we've got one instinct
which is to survive and one guarantee
which is we won't survive
and and I view the Human Experience
largely as an exercise to come to terms
with our mortality to wrap our heads
around it to become to come to peace
with it and um
I I view the different ways that people
do that
um you know there's there's reproduction
we have children
so then I think
that eases people's mind about their
mortality because they're they have a
legacy living on with their children
that they won't really be dead then of
course people turn to religion because
they think everything's gonna be great
when they go to heaven
and and then there's people who leave
stuff behind to outlive them you know
like cavemen scrawling stick figures on
the on the cave it it seems that they
were just like I described really upset
about their mortality and and leaving
this art on the cave walls to outlive
them
because I had failed in in the
university the way the way I did I mean
I failed every which way that you can
and every attempt that I had ever had to
be employed
ended in disaster I was fired from
literally every job that I ever had so
not being able to make it through school
or keep a job I felt absolutely
just
not qualified to navigate the world I I
believed that I was
going to fail at life like badly and and
quickly and um
I think that this idea that
that I would that I believed that I was
just gonna fail at life and die very
young
I think that it heightened
my my mortality issues because even
though you know I was
I was young but like man I think I was
somehow angry at the idea of of death
and and my theory is that I was uh I was
lashing out at death by by climbing off
of balconies and and just dangling from
my hands off
like
12 stories and then letting go and
dropping onto the balcony below like
that was
totally life-threatening especially how
intoxicated I was while doing that and
um
you know I'd like like I said I wanted
that girl who dumped me to think I was
gonna die like there was this this this
idea of mortality was was very
woven into all of uh the art and so I
think that I would I was
I was upset about
mortality and and lashing out at it I
was mocking death taunting it why you
because that is I understand at a
certain level we all probably have that
relationship with our mortality but you
seem to more than anyone I've ever
spoken to have had a more
close and adverse relationship with the
concept of mortality the concept of
death like you seem to the way the way
that I'd word it plainly is like you
seem to have the biggest problem with
death then anyone I've met all right why
um
I think about it and I've always thought
about it since you were young I'd say so
yeah I would I would absolutely say that
I I seem to recall
being quite Young
I I wouldn't know an age but quite young
and and being in the bathtub
just for some reason I was thinking
about
it's going to be the year 2000 and and
like we weren't really anywhere near the
year 2000
um but just kind of doing math in my
head trying to calculate how old I would
be at the turn of the millennium
and I came to uh
25 I'll be 25 years old and and the
thought was I'll never live that long
no I'll never make it that way that
um
and then again I don't know how old I
was but I was definitely a child when I
had that thought and um
and and the the older I got the more
convinced I was and that that
um I wasn't gonna live very long
and and perhaps you know that's you know
another
manifestation of of my alcoholism but I
think that I think that really
to describe alcohol alcoholism
there's there's a like I felt defective
you know I felt like there was just
something wrong with me that uh things
weren't gonna work
you know and I think that that that
to some extent is a a characteristic of
alcoholism for
a lot of Alcoholics
I feel like just
uncomfortable in your own skin they
describe it as Restless irritable and
discontented
um
defective is a word that really
resonates with me
does that ever
subside
oh
tough one because um
I don't think so
I mean to an extent
yeah I I'm definitely better with all
that now like what but
at the same time it doesn't go away I
think that it it improves and and you
know fluctuates and
but um what doesn't go away is this this
default setting I have that everything's
not going to be okay
you know I live in this Perpetual state
of of terrible anxiety and stress that
just
things are not going to be okay and I've
got to just hurry up and
frantically work and hustle to try to
make it so everything will be okay
I'm not surprised to hear that because
it is the story I've heard over and over
and over and over and over again okay
okay yeah and it surprises me because
when before I started doing this podcast
and having these conversations I assumed
that you know something you know have a
certain upbringing childhood you're
programmed in a certain way you go to
therapy and it's fixed yeah and it's
actually been I've I asked the question
purely because I've never heard anyone
say anything other than what you've said
right so you know and I think it's
actually helpful because it helps people
know that they're not their their
efforts to heal in whatever context that
they've tried to heal
um doesn't make them inadequate it makes
them very much human that you know the
way that we're we're programmed in
hardwired because of whatever reasons
you know it is um
it is it is not something that is easy
or in many cases possible just a therapy
away or to prescription away and I think
that makes people a lot of people feel
better
and and what's crazy too is that
I think and I'm fascinated that they
said this is something they've heard
many times and I've never not heard it
right
um and and I would also guess that for
all of the the successful people that
you've spoken with that they would
describe having been much more at peace
much much more Serenity much more
happiness
before they were successful yeah yeah
and
um and it's so counter-intuitive to
imagine that that's the case but
um there's one saying that I think
really
explains it to a degree
which is that this is the saying um a
man who has nothing
only has to worry about his next meal
but a man who has everything worries
about his last meal
yes and that that messaged me up man
that messes me up big time because if
you're just focused on the next meal
then you're in the moment life's you
know pretty pretty simple it's not too
much of a task to to
accomplish finding your next meal
but once you've got your next meal
covered and then it's like all right and
then I've I've saved up some money my
I'm good my next meals are set for the
for the next year
and but then now you're thinking how
long am I set for and once you start
thinking how long am I set for
that then life gets really scary when
because you're not in the moment and
you're you're future tripping and
everything isn't going to be okay and
then
and and what's even crazier is that
I understand that there's been
studies about
um Financial Security
and it's people who have upwards of
10 million dollars net worth who who
find themselves feeling
considerably more financially insecure
than than anybody who has less the more
money you have the more financially
insecure you feel the study that I read
about this it says that um they
interviewed people all the way up the
wealth income spectrum and they asked
them the question how much money how um
how happy you out of 10 and then they
ask them the second question which is
how much money would you need to be 10
out of 10 happy and all the way up the
wealth Spectrum people said three times
currently what they have now so
millionaires said they needed three
million people with 10 million said they
needed 30 to be a 10 out of 10 happiness
and people with 100 cases they needed
300K which speaks to this sort of like
hedonic endless treadmill and increasing
anxiety right and and
um also studies are pretty clear that
um
happiness will increase up to okay based
on it's like 75k yes household yeah I
think that that number is just going up
with inflation I understood it to be
like sixty thousand sixty thousand a
year and then you've got all of your
needs met and then after that more money
doesn't really equate to more happiness
and also to your point about the the
Panic of like losing it I think that's a
an issue for people that came from
nothing predominantly
so if you've always had this Financial
Security growing up and you're you're
you know you were I don't know extremely
wealthy or and you've been wealthy I
think people tend to have less of a fear
of going of losing it all and you also
never seem to have the guilt I sit here
with people and they speak to this
success guilt
they have I hear that a lot and it's
typically people that have felt sleeping
on a sofa that have the kind of even
when they become successful they feel
like they don't deserve it to some
degree and I've read that a little bit
in your story in your book right it's
interesting because I I grew up very
privileged you know my uh
my my father didn't grow up with
privilege as I said he broke the mold
becoming a businessman it became
like my mom didn't marry a rich guy my
Mom married a motivated guy who who
became quite wealthy
um
I had
privileged guilt when I was a kid I was
I was like
quite ashamed of um of how wealthy my
parents were
sure and and I don't understand why that
is but um in whose eyes and like I I I
was uh self-conscious about about
um how my peers viewed me at school
um As I Grew Older
the the
homes that we lived in
each move to each you know
represented a bigger house you know it
became a little bit obnoxious but by the
end um
when I was uh attending High School
um here in London I went to the American
school in St johnswood
and I lived directly across the street
from Regents Park on Prince Albert Road
oh wow in this I mean it was a just
gaudy obnoxiously huge house and um I
never wanted kids from school to see it
so
um I uh
you know then we would have like
overnight when you're a kid I wouldn't
have kids spend the night at my house I
was always overnighted at someone else's
house and um for me to ride my
skateboard to to school you know took a
certain amount of time and if I if I
would oversleep I would ride with my dad
my dad was chauffeur driven to work and
and he would uh be reading his newspaper
in the back seat and and whenever I
overslept and I had to ride with my dad
the
chauffeur would pull up to the school
and as I got out of the car I would hug
the chauffeur
yeah like just trying to create the
impression that I was just embarrassed
my dad was in the back seat like uh
being chauffeured around I I don't know
what that is
um wanting to fit in is every I was the
opposite okay in every respect no one
came to my house because it was like it
was the windows were smashed and the
grass was six foot high
um so everything you described was me
but the opposite for opposite reasons I
would pray that the traffic lights near
our school would stop go turn red which
meant that I could get out of the like
this beat up Van we drove in as far from
school as possible yeah where's your hug
in the show
right it's really interesting too like I
I went to a super privileged school too
I mean like uh I attended school with
the son of the American ambassador to to
the UK like I was like my my best friend
was this kid Abdullah his father was
like a crazy like oil tycoon and uh when
I when I when I was in
for me fifth and sixth grade I was in
London England at that time too same
school
and my father was I'm not even quite
sure what his job position was but the
word for Del Monte the canned fruits and
he had to um uh you know like the all
the pie there's a pineapple Factory in
Kenya that had had to go visit this
pineapple Factory
I want to say maybe once a year
and so
he planned the trip his trip to the
pineapple Factory in Kenya to
coincide with
uh our our spring break the one week off
from from school
so that he could take the family on
Safari
and I have this crazy memory of coming
out of the airport in Nairobi
being ushered into some chauffeur-driven
car I was remembered as a stretch limo
my dad says no we didn't have it but
whatever
ushered into a chauffeur-driven car out
of the airport and um
and it's sitting in the back of this car
and these these just it was my first
time seeing poverty like real poverty
and these people were were clawing at
the windows begging and I'm just sitting
in this car and and just thinking what
did I ever do
to deserve to be like I'm not a good kid
you know like I I'm just always in
trouble like I don't do just like again
feeling defective you know like and it
was I really wasn't a good kid I mean I
was always in trouble everything was
just a disaster with me and here I am
inside the car that's being clawed at by
these people who are barely clothed you
know and just clearly desperate and um
that like that was a moment where I felt
genuinely guilty you know I had a priv
privileged guilt you know and that's
that's worse than success guilt because
you know and
again I did everything wrong I was
always in trouble got terrible grades
and my sister
who was who is three and a half years
older than me she did everything right
got straight A's the the just did
everything perfect
somehow uh along the way
like my like my sister
um went into a low earning career she
was a school teacher which is
notoriously underpaid especially for how
important of a job that is
um with the singer became a single mom
with uh special needs kid and and low
earning and then like
struggles you know like like life is
hard for my sister and and like somehow
me the guy who just did everything wrong
and then goes on to have this
stupid career and everything works out
great for me so when you said success
guilt I feel that I feel like like what
why
you know why did everything work out
great for me and my sister's having a
tough time
and I struggle with that too I actually
um
I uh I I I have it I've always called it
kind of survivor's guilt but but yeah
success guilt same thing
you your mother had a brain aneurysm in
98. you said
um Jackass the pilot was in 99 yep a
year later yeah you describe how your
mother was ill for for roughly five
years before she passed away and she was
um just disabled
you're very busy with jackass at that
time
how do you do you deal did you did you
cope with it because it doesn't seem to
me that there's any anyone in your life
really at that point or any experience
that's going to help you deal with the
concept of grief and loss right how did
you cope with it if you did it all um
my parents divorced in 1991.
I graduated from the American School
here in London the American School in
London and St John's word in 1992
I went off to the University of Miami
um the right around the time when I went
to the University of Miami my mom moved
to Florida as well
then on that fateful day of October 10th
1998 we received word that
mom had this brain aneurysm my sister
and I flew to Florida from New Mexico
my dad flew to Florida from England we
all congregated around
this this crisis with my mom
at one point we went to a nearby
restaurant
to get a meal I went outside to smoke a
cigarette
and my dad came outside and initiated
his conversation he says I've been I
want to tell you
that I feel I've done a disservice to
you by not supporting you
in this path that you've chosen my my
path to be a crazy famous stunt man
he said I said I chose a path that
my father you know dad broke the mold
becoming a businessman the idea of that
was
pretty repugnant to his father
and and he said that his father had the
same conversation if we chose something
that I would not have chosen for you but
you're clearly committed to it and so I
just want you to be the best and you
know be the happiest and I'd pledge to
support you and I'm thinking man like
it's tough because I'm a loser you know
like the whole thing going on with my
mom was It was kind of prevalent
but this the side
conversation like I just felt like wow
you know like now dad supports me and
I I I just did I didn't feel very very
hopeful I don't think at that time but
it put a lot of wind in my cells
so
the next year
I saw this advert on television for a
show called real TV
where they're saying if you got
if you have video home video footage
that's crazy and you think that we
should have it on our show then call
this number and I called the number and
sent them my videotape and they wanted
it
and uh and dad helped me negotiate the
the license deal with them
and uh and it was meaningful you know
this pursuit of becoming a crazy famous
stunt man had
made my father and I as far apart as as
you know it really really made us not
our relationships suffer and then
ultimately it would bring us together
and today
my dad is 80 years old
been retired forever
but he's come out of retirement and he's
on my payroll
he uh manages like all kinds of uh
business stuff for me all my insurance
stuff like
and um
it's crazy it's Insanity that that that
just again what what drove us so far
apart brought us so close together
and that Catalyst moment was your
mother's brain aneurysm really it was
that conversation might not have
happened and then
it it it was and now now you pointed to
when jackass chart I wouldn't just well
okay
um
my sister and I
both moved from New Mexico
to Florida to be with your mom to be
with my mom yeah
and my sister
naturally assumed the role of of
caregiver for my mom and um I got this
opportunity to go uh
be a circus clown on cruise ships
and it just made sense for me to do that
you know like um I think that my overall
attitude
in particularly like even going off to
work on cruise ships and then with you
know with with jackass
I don't think that I had any level of
like
guilt about it I think that my my
attitude about pursuing
my own career and to be you know with
jackass and everything else
my attitude was that
rather than let this aneurysm destroy
everything that I've I've really
strongly wanted to get out there and
really make something of myself and that
that would be the way to honor my mom
more
and and make my mom proud that way
people doing and often appreciate how
difficult it is for everybody around the
individual that's that's sick and I've
again I've learned that from doing this
having this conversation about just how
sort of debilitating and
difficult it is for everyone around the
individual especially when they're in a
situation where they become disabled and
your mother's situation was I mean she
she couldn't move from what I understood
she wasn't necessarily speaking she was
wheelchair-bound
she had to be lifted out of bed and into
a wheelchair and and back and could she
could speak
she could speak but
there there it fluctuated how present
she was how aware she was
um one of the more aware moments I said
Mom I'm gonna have a book written about
my life
and she uh
she said and who's gonna write this
masterpiece
you know she was making fun of me and it
was funny like uh the last time that um
that my mom ever laughed was I came home
um with the words [__] and [__] tattooed
on my knuckles
and Mom was in the hospital at that
point with the do not resuscitate order
on her bed like this was this was the
end like
is about a month before she passed and
um
I I walked into her hospital room and
I just didn't you know it was just a
tough situation I didn't
and I just said hey Ma
like check it out and I held up my my
Knuckles to her and she she looked at it
and she said [__] [__]
[__] [__]
and then she said my son is a [__] [__]
and she like
she laughed and it's the most beautiful
I thought it was just the most beautiful
thing like uh she's able to laugh and
you know and um
yeah it's tough man that whole thing's
tough
and and and the the toughest thing is
just imagining
when uh when I was struggling in the
beginning like like prior to her annual
aneurysm
like there were times
when uh I'd show her one of my videos
and say Mom check it out she says oh
yeah well that that's great
but like how are
how is this ever going to like earn you
anything you know like shouldn't ever
seem to be like terribly concerned for
my safety of those showing her videos of
like jumping off Bridges and like you
know doing stuff that was like really
pretty dangerous and uh appear to be
life-threatening and and that never
seemed to upset her what she was upset
about was that uh that I I was I didn't
have a pot to piss and she would say you
don't have a pot to piss in like how am
I supposed to be impressed but this
where's this ever gonna get you know how
is this ever gonna she would say show me
the money
you know show me the money like how is
this gonna give you the money and um man
like given that
that was her position on it and I think
that that she was um
largely concerned with the appearance of
things and and
um like less she wasn't ever I never got
the sense that she was worried for my
safety on any level I think that's what
she was concerned with was how I
reflected on her interesting you know
like my son's a loser this is a bummer
you know she was bummed that I was a
loser because that reflected badly on
her and um that's just that's what was
important to her you know there's
nothing wrong with that and um is that
why you want her you'd like her to be
able to see God yeah man that's the
toughest thing to imagine if uh
if we if she she had been to rehab many
times she was in the program recovery
but she just couldn't hang on to that
you know she would always
she would just always end up drinking
again
and um
I think that what would
what would cause her to relapse was was
the you know Trauma from
the breakup with my dad which is just a
vicious cycle because what broke her up
with my dad was her drinking and then
the trauma from
the the divorce would make you know this
is a vicious cycle
but um had she gotten it had she really
really grabbed onto it and not let go
and been in recovery and and both of us
like she would have just gotten such a
kick out of
like
being on being on the red carpet at a
big movie premiere and she would just be
letting me have it making fun of me for
the dumb [__] I was doing in the movies
like we'd be laughing so that was one
thing my mom had like a sense of humor
she had she was cool man she was cool
and we would we were related to each
other a lot
you you're 29 November the seventh she
passes away correct
a mixture of emotions I read in your
book
um in professional idiot page 194 the
overwhelming emotion I felt afterward
was relief sure yeah
the suffering was over
you know it was it was merciful like
that there's nothing upsetting about my
mom dying it was what was upsetting was
the the pain and the suffering that she
had endured for the five years leading
up to her death
do you ever process that we talk a lot
about these days about grief and we
understand that grief is a thing and I
don't think we ever did before do you
did you ever process that
if I did it was years later in recovery
and and digesting the concepts in that
book conversations with God
that was when
I finally
uh
that that was when I just
developed the idea that Mom wasn't alone
you know
the mom was that
she wasn't alone she like that that was
an experience that she had
as God and somehow that just that it
doesn't change anything but it changes
everything alone
why why the word alone why was that the
concern
[Music]
just because the
I mean it's uh
like on on a bigger level
like
mom moms is one thing you know so
there's no such thing as alone
at the same time jackass starts taking
off right so that's roughly around that
time your Fame goes through the roof
yeah well
mom's aneurysm was 1998.
I worked on cruise ships for six months
of 1999
I worked in a circus at a flea market
for six months in year 2000 and jackass
came out in October of year 2000 and
then yeah everything the movie comes out
in 2002 yeah um you're 28 years old at
that time your mother passes when you
were 29 the next year these two things
have almost happened at similar times
your trajectory started to Skyrocket
your mother has passed away
lots to deal with lots going on Fame is
this new thing in your life now and
attention and yeah as you said earlier
like worrying about the next meal is
maybe sometimes a better problem than
worrying about the last
um this strikes me as as a real
difficult moment in your life
um
I I the from professional Lydia which I
read it said by mid-2007 I was
practically living on Diet Coke booze
and nitrous
a not Diet Coke a diet of cocaine
that's amazing difference
there was any diet of coke
big difference
um hallucinating and hearing voices yeah
big time
it's called psychosis and it's a
fascinating
um it's a fascinating thing
that um
there are so many different substances
one can ingest that
might bring about this phenomena of
psychosis yet there's so much similarity
between
the experiences people have with it
uh even though they take so many
different Avenues to get there
and that's partially why I believe that
psychosis
um
that there's a
sort of different
compartments maybe dimensions and that
um
where in our in our Human Experience
where uh in
a distinct compartment
uh and that psychosis happens when you
erode
the the barriers to the other
compartments other dimensions
and by doing that with with chemical
substances
um we've erode the barriers
kind of open ourselves up to
energies from
other
Dimensions
um
you open yourself up to like all levels
of it so you can really let in demons
you know like like demons being low
level of frequency energy and Angels
like being a higher level and by uh just
consuming enough substances I I really
believe that you erode the barriers you
open yourself up to all these energies
and um in comes flooding
demons and and angels and that that's
how I characterize my experiences with
hallucinations
um
all that stuff is uh
demon activity with some angels mixed in
um I was reading about this thing called
the rad email list oh yeah where you
send an email to a lot of people which I
think ultimately sounds like one of the
things that brought about an
intervention but right it wasn't one
email it was more of a uh
stream a a barrage I was inundating a
list of 200 roughly 200 people many of
them very influential people in the
entertainment industry
celebrities and agents and just powerful
people of uh you know
media personalities
um
and I was just inundating these 200
people with emails at all hours around
the clock and and effectively
broadcasting my downward spiral in real
time and and I would send at times
really funny stuff you know at times uh
just deeply alarming stuff I was you
know I was
I knew
that I how out of control I was in it
but but I was just I was rad I mean I I
was out of my mind I was out of my mind
and I was making that abundantly clear
by uh sending video YouTube had become a
thing YouTube started in 2005. so
2007 YouTube allowed me to make really
disturbing videos and then email the
links to 200 people
if I was a flyer on the wall in 2007 in
your life what would I've seen
on an average day
in 2007 I was renting four apartments in
one building one of them I just did
demolished the walls and built Escape
Park throughout the whole apartment
um with permission from the landlord no
not at all no permission whatsoever
and it was just with the the I remember
there was like a Russian prostitute
operation uh in the adjacent apartment
so they weren't trying to complain about
the noise there was a stairwell
on the other side and beneath was the
the parking garage so it was um
there were never any complaints for that
and then
um a little bit down the hall was uh
right had
um
a couple of my buddies living there one
of one of them was uh you know edited
stuff for me but we very very rarely
well I mean he wouldn't he thinks he
works hard yeah I mean I I people on
like uh on salary and they they didn't
do too much but when I was really out of
my mind and these disturbing videos that
I wanted to email the links to the rad
email that's my editor guy was in charge
of that
um so yeah I had the the office the
skate park apartment the office
apartment and then I had an apartment
for the assistant the assistant really
didn't do anything
um
except explain to people that she
couldn't get a hold of me
and change my flights uh well because I
would always miss my flights
um and then I had my apartment which uh
was this is sort of a this is where all
we're all the really crazy stuff
happened that was that was just my
little drug Den
and um
I would I would inhale this nitrous
oxide stuff and and it would come in
these little cartridges that people used
to make whipped cream
and a box of these nitrous oxide
cartridges would
have there would be 24 cartridges per
box but if you bought a case there would
be 25 boxes in the case and I believe
that 25 times 24 comes to 600
um and so I would sit down with 600
cartridges of nitrous oxide and just
inhale
like the the thing that the cartridge
goes into this canister
correct yeah but I'd have two of them oh
so I would you know I would crack one up
and fill that and inhale it with my
lungs filled with nitrous oxide I would
be busy filling up the next one
so that when I exhaled the nitrous from
the first I would then
inhale just so I wouldn't
not breathe I was I wasn't breathing air
because like uh I was breathe I was
inhaling nitrous oxide to the exclusion
of breathing air
I mean as much as possible and my my
goal at all times would be to lose
Consciousness because if you um you know
if you do that and you hold your breath
you you will
become unconscious and you're kind of
twitching and flopping around and and uh
your lips are all blue and then and then
you come back too and and
it would uh it's not not healthy and I
would be doing that and I would be doing
that
for days on end while
um snorting cocaine so it was on on like
the second and
and particularly on the third day of
being awake on a cocaine binge
while inhaling nothing but nitrous oxide
um that's when the the most profound
psychosis with all the hallucinating
would be going on
you sent out on that rad email one time
suicide gladiation yeah I I
um
I mean I was going so crazy in this
apartment and um I uh
it's very loud and and and
um
destructive in there and and the the
next apartment over
was uh uh
a lawyer in his first year of being a
lawyer
uh so you know like
um
a guy who cared about work and I was
just making all kinds of noise at all
hours and so he was he would call the
police he's getting this my neighbor
it's insane you know
and um the more that the police would
show up at my apartment the angrier I
would get at the lawyer who was calling
the police which is a little bit
backwards and that was kind of my ammo
like I would I would wrong people and
then I would resent them for their
Perfectly Natural response to being
wronged by me
Mr Runners
so I would uh you know I would bang on
the guys well I would really antagonize
this this poor lawyer Guy and um at one
point it got to uh
to the level we're pounding on the wall
I actually pounded a hole in the wall
and um I pounded a hole here I did on my
side there's the there's the the drywall
and then in between there's like the
fiberglass stuff and then then there's
his side of the throat I actually had
this one night pounded all the way
through his side of the wall too so I
was actually looking into his apartment
which of course constitutes vandalism so
when he called the cops this time and
the the cops showed up they had no
choice but to actually arrest me for
Vandal he said look they put a hole in
my wall
so they um were here to arrest me and I
was um
really really uh
out of it
um like having been
snorting both cocaine and ketamine so
I was super out of it and didn't
put it together that I was being
arrested and going to jail with a bag of
cocaine in my pocket
I mean I probably could have it would
make sense that and I remember it was
funny too because they said that I was
barefoot and I had no shirt and they
said well we have to take her to jail we
have no choice but we will let you go
put on a shirt and some shoes
which which was the perfect opportunity
for me to go into my apartment and
remove the bag of cocaine from my pocket
but I didn't do that and I said you know
[__] a shirt [__] shoes
so I went to jail completely Barefoot
and shirtless with a bag of cocaine in
my pocket and um
and then when they you know when they
process you into jail they search you
know your pockets they found the cocaine
and they arrested me again so I was now
out of felony cocaine possession charge
as well as the vandalism charge and and
this was like pretty well publicized the
you know the fact of the cocaine you
know the arrest and um when I was
released from the jail I was in there
for like uh I want to say like three
days because the consensus
among anybody who loved me was he's
better off in jail so there was no
concerted effort to bail me out which is
why I managed to stay in there for I
believe
about three days and then when I finally
did get released from the jail after the
three days and I returned to my
apartment there was an eviction notice
on the door
so my response to that was okay well I'm
being evicted and I went into the
apartment I found more vials of ketamine
that I had stashed in there and I cooked
that all up
and um
within a couple hours I was
like
screaming about
God like while jumping up and down on a
parked car
and like dealing with more cops you were
man handled into a psych wood right like
yeah yeah well so I went on this this
prodigious final bender and and uh I was
running out of time before I had to get
my step out of the apartment I was
evicted so the email to the rad email
list was hey I had to have my stuff out
of this apartment because I've been
evicted
but before I have to
be gone
I want to
uh jump a motor so I want to ride a
motorcycle through the living room and
off a ramp and jump it over onto the
building next door which was very very
small Gap right here it's not there was
hardly even a big it's done and and it
was like two and a half stories up uh I
think I was on the third floor but it
really like kind of two and a half so
maybe like 20 25 feet and I and I said
on the rad email list and I also I want
to jump the motorcycle onto the roof
next door and I want to jump out of the
bedroom window into a hot tub
you know and I just said so Knoxville
bring a camera crew and a hot tub and if
you can't do the hot tub at least bring
some cardboard boxes but I'm jumping out
of the window and I'm jumping you know
and if you don't come I'm jumping out of
the window anyway I'm gonna jump and I'm
gonna find out how many bones break when
I land on the sidewalk 25 feet below I'm
ready to die
yeah like I said I was like promising
that I was gonna jump out of the window
and and break bones on the concrete
below and that qualified me for the
psychiatric evaluation and they they
staged an intervention they staged an
intervention yeah and I said not into so
Knoxville responded I forget if he
responded with all 200 people on copy
but uh but I said this I did this on the
the rad email list with the 200 people
and and um
I said uh
if
Knoxville responding says okay I'll be
there
you know I said be here at 10 A.M
be here 10 a.m where I'm gonna jump and
everybody what his response was he says
uh can we do noon what's with the early
call times sheesh
so we agreed on noon
I forget
I'm starting with the earlier call times
I think what he was concerned with was
having more time to uh to Rally uh you
know
a group to really do the intervention
but but by in that email exchange I I
was not scheduling a shoot for you know
for jackass as I thought I was actually
scheduling my intervention and that's
really where your life
seems to have started to take a new
Direction although not linear in any
respect well I mean that that
intervention marked uh the beginning of
my journey I've been cleaning sober
since that day
which is yeah I mean the intervention
was March 9th
the intervention was March 9th of 2009.
oh sorry yeah March 9th of 2008 and we
don't count that as our sobriety because
it's the first day you didn't get loaded
it's your Friday date so my
my sobriety date is March 10th of 2008.
ladies and gentlemen as you know Zoe is
now sponsoring this podcast and I'm a
proud investor in the company and I've
been going on the Zoe Journey myself it
all starts with this home testing kit
you get sent in the post which measures
your gut health your blood sugar and
your blood fat I've had this little
device this blood sugar glucose sensor
on my arm which came in the home testing
kit to understand how all of the
different foods that I eat day to day
have an impact on my body and it's been
pretty unbelievable a big thing for me
is feeling tired after I've eaten
something and not understanding why
historically I didn't understand now I
do understand I'd been eating I think it
was like a rice stir-fry with a bit of
chicken and some chili sauce in there
and I saw in my blood glucose chart on
my phone which is connected to the
device that Zoe sent me this huge Spike
and then later in the day I saw a huge
dip when I started feeling that sort of
post lunch slump and what will happen
next is Tim tells me they'll take all of
that data and give me my own
personalized Zoe scores for any food so
I can figure out what I should be eating
and what I should avoid if I want to
avoid those afternoon slums and if you
want to get started on your Zoe Journey
with me use the code we've got an
exclusive code here CEO 10 for 10 off
and let me know how you get on when it
arrives back to the episode over 14
years sober over 15 now over 15 years
sober yeah
congratulations dude that's amazing
honestly that's incredible it's so
incredible and I don't say that to you
know to be uh self-important or you know
like like douche it's just the
most profound gift
like ever and and I I believe strongly
that you know this conversation began
with this dark discussion of alcoholism
and and how
uh just how terrible and and sad
alcoholism is however
as upsetting as alcoholism and drug
addiction is
it's the only disease where once you
treat it
you become a better version of yourself
than you were before
and and that's really incredible to me
because any other disease the best you
can hope for is to get back to as
healthy as you were before you got sick
but for us sober alcoholics and addicts
like we genuinely become improved
versions of ourselves
and the work you've done since has been
incredible I mean you've taken on many
professional Pursuits
um your stand-up comedy became a facet
of your life in 2013 uh 2010 2010 okay I
had the first time I had um gotten on
stage in a comedy club and and uh
performed what what I intended to be
stand-up comedy was 2006. how did that
go
um I thought it went a lot better than
it actually did but um
but
the first time I ever got on that stage
it wasn't it wasn't a disaster it became
a disaster later
um
but but in 2010 once I'd been clean and
sober for just over two years
I I've pursued stand-up comedy and
earnest
why stand up comedy I know you've got a
big tour coming up in the UK but why
stand up comedy I'm trying to understand
the through line between the stunts it's
the the through line is just attention
seeking
you know
um
the first time I ever got on stage to
perform in a comedy club uh there was it
was 2006 I believe it was August of 2006
and um our
second Jackass movie was um
to be released a couple months later
I showed up at this Comedy Club I walked
in had no plan for what I was going to
do
and just
observing what was happening on the
stage with somebody standing there
holding a microphone just speaking to
the audience
um
I thought there's no stunt that could
possibly be crazier than that you know
like I'm gonna do my my the craziest
stunt that I could possibly do is no
stun at all I'm gonna stand there and
speak into a microphone and try to make
the people laugh this was genuinely the
most terrifying concept and I was just
wasted enough to decide I'm gonna do
that
when it became my turn to to get on the
stage
um I had come up with one joke as I got
on the stage there were people they were
aware of me
they were excited to see me I felt like
an excitement uh
they were there to have a good time they
were they were rooting for me I mean of
course like get on stage on Stevo rad
they were that I felt loved I felt uh
they were rooting for me they wanted to
have a good time I got I got on I was
terrified but but uh but it was it was
just it it was man it was uh
it was electric dude and um you know
it's I said you know what's up everybody
I'm in the mood for a [__] does
anybody want one
and uh and and and I got a laugh you
know like they'd laughed and I just was
so happy about that and um I couldn't
have been on that stage for more than
three minutes like um I got on and I got
off just got out of there and it was a
favorable experience and I decided that
this was something I wanted to pursue
and you've been pursuing ever since
there's a an awesome tour coming up in
the UK from June 30th to July 14th I
believe called bucket list that's right
and and I'm coming to see oh dude I love
that man I'm gonna make sure that
happens soon when I started doing
stand up in Earnest in 2010.
um
I imagined that I was
that I was trying to establish myself as
a stand-up comedian and that I was going
to forge a career with with speaking
into a microphone
and um and and I felt that I felt that I
was
well equipped to succeed in that
endeavor because my life has been so
just uh colorful like the experience
that I've had in my life like to to to
mine my life experience for material and
stand-up comedy uh it seemed very doable
you know like I've got I've got stuff to
talk about so I felt that I came into
stand-up comedy not with just an
advantage and that I had
um
an audience a profile but I just had an
interesting material to
you know to mine and um
clearly the world was not eager for
the stand-up comedy of Stevo you know I
think that they're the bar for the stuff
that I was known for like to to go from
like the the the the shocking like
unbelievable like crazy visual
stuff that I'd become known for and then
appear speaking into a microphone it
seems
like uh mismatching expectation yeah I
think that's always disappointment isn't
it right like and maybe this is from my
own perception I'm not sure but with all
of the self-doubt with all of the
um
you know negative self-talk I just still
persisted and um I I wasn't
super successful in the beginning and
like of course not but I was successful
enough
to get booked by comedy clubs and then
be welcome back and I would go around
this Comedy Club Circuit around the the
United States and I did just well enough
to
go back around the loop and that Loop
lasted for 11 years in comedy clubs and
and I I tirelessly persisted I I
genuinely didn't I put in work and I
developed this craft of Storytelling and
and stand up telling jokes
along the way I taped
two comedy specials the first one
was me and a microphone and uh some
intermittent stunts I performed on stage
throughout the act and as I put together
what would become the next comedy
special I put together this this new act
to tour with
it occurred to me that the stories I was
telling in this new Act
had
for the most part all
happened on camera and I had the idea
wow what if for my next comedy special
I performed the ACT but in
post-production I edit into
the special
interstitial footage of these stories
unfolding
[Music]
to the storytelling oh dude my head
exploded I got so excited I I couldn't
even I couldn't even stand it wow like
I'm gonna have a my next comedy special
is going to be multimedia uh that that
one I put out myself
um
and uh
and then it was time to put together the
Third
show so now I knew that for this third
show which is bucket list the bucket is
correct that I needed to
film all new stuff which would lend
itself to all new stand-up material
and
it had to be crazier than [__] it had to
be crazier than ever and that's what
people will see if they go yeah okay for
sure that this uh
there were just ideas that came up over
the years that were that were genuinely
never supposed to happen on any level
but they were they were just
ideas that I was so fond of because they
were crazy things to say
I can't wait the idea was to push things
further than jackass ever could and
there's no way that
you do that and there's not a story to
tell you know yeah like the the the
challenges of of making these things
happen it's just there's uh
it's inherently juicy
material for stand up there's just no
way around it and and one step further
is that
um
I've worked so hard on um
developing the ability to be in a
healthy relationship with a life partner
so I was just about to ask you this was
my last question which was about looks
right my fiance Lux and and the The
Bucket List show is every bit as much
about these
Ultra high-level jackass stunts and how
they're conceived and executed it's
every bit as much about that as the
implications of
carrying out these bucket list items on
my relationship with my fiance what I
was actually going to ask you about was
specifically kind of the juxtaposition
of what's making you successful here
seems to me as a guy that's got into
relationship struggled to find a
relationship for my own reasons with my
childhood seems to be the antithesis the
very opposite of what it takes to be
successful in a relationship which is
like the stability the the I don't know
the the calm the right and over here
we're seeking instability
and here in a relationship then I don't
know there needs to be a certain
stability that I think how
well
to derive
one's self-worth and self-esteem from
external validation
uh the way that that we do in Show
Business
like for for me to
base my
self-worth and self-esteem on how
successful I am as Stevo
it just plainly presents a dark and
upsetting future as the spotlight
wanes you know like the the
and and I can't and this is something
that that became very clear to me 15
years ago when I got sober was that for
me to be happy and and healthy on any
level it is of Paramount importance that
I find some separation between
me and the Persona of Stevo
and um
with that kind of ruminating in my mind
and and as I was when I got into the
stand-up I got
I was acting out sexually as much as
possible on the road while doing
stand-up and and at that time I was um
in my late 30s approaching 40
and and it just occurred me man this is
not the the the road to being happy and
you know
I gotta learn if I want to be happy
later in life I need to learn how to
have a healthy relationship that was a a
belief that I subscribed to and I got to
work on learning how to be in a healthy
relationship and thank God I did because
I'm terrified of being a washed up
old attention [__] that nobody wants to
pay attention to anymore and being alone
and being alone that sounds like the
most terrifying like awful thing and so
what does it what does she mean to you
looks I mean
she you said something earlier that uh
that the the design for living in the 12
steps and this isn't my you know kind of
extrapolating on what you said you said
that the principles of honesty
open-mindedness and willingness are
helpful to all people and I'll take that
a step further that the design for
living outlined in the 12 steps is
something that
you don't have to be an alcoholic or an
addict to benefit from but what Lux is
as a person
is somebody who
automatically does that stuff you know
she's automatically honest you know
she's automatically
like open willing like like she's
automatically does the right thing
you know where I had to to really really
work and train myself to be honest and
to do the right thing you know and uh
you know she's just automatically
they're just automatic to her and and
lux's
capacity for love is so
staggering like her it's just so natural
to her to to be loving and and and it
blows me away we both like with the
animals we're out of our minds we love
animals so much and um the way that lux
loves me and the way that she wants me
to love her like
just uh no no hold like
the way that we that might hold each
other the way that like she's she's
she's
taught me to love she's she's increased
my capacity to love and and that's
that's the biggest deal man it's it's
massive
such a beautiful thing Stevo thank you
so Stephen Stephen yeah thank you so
much
um we have a closing traditional on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest okay um and
the question that's been a few is one of
the most interesting questions that's
ever been left in fact they don't know
who they're leaving it for good so it's
a totally they said what can Stephen
so you've filled in the blank no no no
they literally wrote what can Stephen
when they're talking about me ah I mean
if they spell they spelled it with your
name with a pH they said what can
Stephen this beautiful man improve about
himself
so that's my what kind of yeah about
myself it's they're asking you to tell
me what I can improve about myself
because they didn't know you were called
Stephen so they said what can Stephen
this beautiful man improve about himself
honesty
uh
you didn't speak about yourself very
much but but one thing that you did say
um
you seemed to
point to
the deficiency in your relationship with
your girlfriend being that you're so
consumed with work and uh they said
something about she wants quality time
you can't compensate for your
uh you know all of your energy and time
going into your career and that you want
to compensate by with material things
and and that but that she's no no
interest in material things she wants
quality time
and um I think that uh that you and I
both
um have this uh
this drive this this this hustle this
this urge to succeed and um
I think that uh
the the both of us would do well to
find
our success in our relationships every
study about about longevity and health
and happiness
100 points to relationships as the
source of Happiness true happiness and
true health comes from the quality of
our relationships not the numbers in our
bank account but the quality in our
relationship so
um
I think that the the my answer for you
is this for me it's just that uh
you know that we should put the emphasis
on our
quality time in our relationships that
we do
on our hustle and it's the the reason
why I I don't is because I think of some
of the stuff that I said earlier about
like where I came from and being a poor
family so like my survival innately in
me or my validation comes from my work
so I'm like being pulled by this like
insecurity and the shame for my
childhood over here like my [__] [__]
become everything that you want and you
know and then on the other hand my sense
goes well Steve the happiest times in
your life the the all the studies I've
sat here with the guy that did that 95
year old study on
um men and found that they live I think
it's like 14 years longer if they have a
meaningful relationship I know logically
but then emotionally and the scar the
scar tissue in me goes no you need to
validate yourself right I'm being
dragged by that still just you know
right and hustle but but not in a way
that that undermines or or detracts from
the quality of the relationships
is that that's what you're doing
I mean yeah [__] that lux and I have a
rule that we
were not to be apart for more than two
weeks I love that and we spent two days
together over the course of six weeks we
broke our rule badly and that's not cool
man yeah
so um if I wasn't so
you know the so so
operating from Fear that's the that's
the the difference hustle because you
love it no because you're not because
you're afraid of the post-apocalyptic
you know and this is concept I've been
talking with a lot on this podcast
between the distinction between being
driven and being dragged and sometimes
I'm being dragged yeah driven is the
like intentional it sounds like you know
kind of the the intentional hustle with
control over the hustle dragged is like
[__] fear like if I don't yeah then
I'm not enough and right I've taken so
much of your time I did thank you so
much really really appreciate that
pleasure to meet you and I've learned so
much incredibly surprising wisdom-filled
conversation that Grace so many
different aspects I'm so excited to see
bucket list I'm sure all of my audience
are as well the 13th is the date to be
there right hacker Empire that's where
I'll be and I'm looking forward I think
that we might be able to open up some
tickets on the 14th okay
um but but I don't know and I don't know
how many I just know that as I sit here
now the the the show on the 13th just
went live okay so that's that's a whole
show that I got to fill so link is in
the description below to get tickets in
the YouTube description and on the Audio
Apps it's in the description below and I
hope to see you guys there thank you so
much Steve thank you
a quick word until as you know they're a
sponsor of this podcast and I'm an
investor in the company one of the
things I've never really explained is
how I came to have a relationship with
huel one day in the office many years
ago a guy walked past called Michael and
he was wearing a heeled t-shirt and I
was really compelled by the logo I just
thought from a design aesthetic point of
view it was really interesting and I
asked him what that word meant and why
he was wearing that T-shirt and he said
it's this brand called heal and they
make food that is nutritionally complete
and very very convenient and has the
planet in mind and he the next day
dropped off a little bottle of fuel on
my desk and from that day onwards I
completely got it because I'm someone
that cares tremendously about having a
nutritionally complete diet but
sometimes because of the way my life is
that falls by the wayside so if there
was a really convenient reliable
trustworthy way for me to be
nutritionally complete in an affordable
way I was all ears especially if it's a
way that is conscious of the planet give
it a chance give it a shot let me know
what you think
foreign
[Music]